---
title: "123X03A Intelligent Marine Navigation and Information System"
collection: teaching
type: "B. Eng. Course"
permalink: /teaching/2023-2024-teaching-2
venue: "Ningbo University, Faculty of Maritime and Transportation"
date: 2024-03-01
location: "Ningbo, Zhejiang, China"
---
This course is one of the optional courses of navigation technology major. Bilingual teaching is adopted, which enables students to understand and master the development trend and technology development from manual, to automatic and to intelligent navigation in the future. The main content of this course is to introduce the various systems and system integration of ships to realize navigation and information functions. Through these systems, officers can achieve navigation information acquisition, positioning, control and information exchange functions that previously had to be completed manually. With the continuous development of computer and information technology, more and more equipment on the ship has the function of automatically collecting and processing information, and has realized many navigation-assistance functions. In the future, with the development of artificial intelligence, navigation intelligence, unmanned navigation is possible, and may be considered to be the inevitable trend of development. This course starts from the systems with certain navigation functions, and systematically introduces the principles, functions, characteristics and applications of these systems, and on this basis, analyzes the path and technology to realize intelligence in the future. This course plays an important supporting role in mastering the key knowledge of navigation technology, and is conducive to students' understanding of the functional modules, developments and trends of navigation technology. It is a directional course of navigation technology major.

Heading 1
======

Heading 2
======

Heading 3
======
