---
title: "Exploring the Influence of Pedestrian Attitude, Propensity, and Risk Perception on Gap Acceptance between Platooning Autonomous Trucks"
collection: conferences
type: "[Poster Presentation]"
permalink: /conferences/2024-07-10-itsc
venue: Edmonton Convention Centre
excerpt: "The 27th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC) (ITSC 2024), September 24-27, 2024."
date: 2024-07-11
location: "Edmonton, Canada"
---
Ye, Y., Che, Y., & Liang, H. (2024). Exploring the Influence of Pedestrian Attitude, Propensity, and Risk Perception on Gap Acceptance between Platooning Autonomous Trucks. *The 27th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC) (ITSC 2024)*, Edmonton, Canada, September 24-27, 2024. (**EI, Poster Presentation**)

**Abstract**: The rapid progress in autonomous driving technology offers a promising solution to the growing shortage of truck drivers and aims to significantly enhance the efficiency of freight transportation. However, the integration of autonomous trucks, especially when operating in platoons, present complex challenges in ensuring pedestrian safety and understanding the dynamics of pedestrian interactions with these vehicles. This study investigates the gap acceptance behavior of pedestrians when faced with platooning autonomous trucks. By constructing a virtual crossing scenario and conducting video-based pedestrian crossing decision experiments, complementing with stated preference surveys, this research seeks to clarify the intricate relationships between unobserved human factors—such as pedestrian attitudes, risk perceptions, and behaviors—and the observed gap acceptance behavior in the context of autonomous truck platoons. The Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) approach is employed to analyze the relationships among pedestrian attitudes, propensity, and risk perception, and to identify key factors influencing risk-taking gap acceptance behaviors in pedestrian interactions with autonomous truck platoons. The results indicate that autonomous trucks are perceived as risky, leading to increased caution among pedestrians and affecting their gap-acceptance behavior. This paper contributes to a deeper understanding of pedestrian gap acceptance and the impact of subjective factors like attitudes and risk perceptions in the context of platooning autonomous trucks, providing insights for advancing autonomous driving technology in the trucking industry. 
