---
title: "SmartPL: An integrated approach for platoons driving on mixed-traffic freeways"
collection: conferences
type: "[Poster Presentation]"
permalink: /conferences/2024-08-21-iconip
venue: Auckland University of Technology (AUT)
excerpt: "The 31st International Conference on Neural Information Processing (ICONIP 2024), December 2-6, 2024."
date: 2024-08-21
location: "Auckland, New Zealand"
---
Li, H., You, L.\*, Xie, J., **Ye, Y.**, & Tan, X. (2024). SmartPL: An integrated approach for platoons driving on mixed-traffic freeways. The 31st International Conference on Neural Information Processing (ICONIP 2024), Auckland, New Zealand, December 2-6, 2024. (**CCF C, EI**)

**Abstract**: Vehicle platooning is a critical technology for transportation efficiency and energy consumption reduction. Even though conventional solutions to generate simultaneous lane-changing strategies have been widely studied, when managing platoons on freeways with mixed traffic, it becomes challenging to support sequential lane-changing maneuvers, which can perform efficient lane-changing even in high traffic density. To achieve that, this paper proposes an integrated approach called SmartPL, which can: 1) maintain close and efficient driving behaviors with stable platoon inter-vehicle distance during lane changs through a hybrid control model that separately manages car-following and lane-changing behaviors; 2) produce foresighted strategies by roadside unit (RSU) deploying a dedicated neural network, which comprises a traffic information encoder, a spatial relation extractor, and a strategy maker; and 3) facilitate sequential and safe lane-changing maneuvers by implementing a safety monitor on each platoon member. Furthermore, the efficiency and effectiveness of SmartPL are evaluated in a mixed-traffic freeway simulation. SmartPL achieves superior performance in accelerating and safeguarding
lane-changing maneuvers, with average improvements of 12.54%, 14.66%, and 22.94% over three state-of-the-art methods, respectively. Code is available at https://github.com/IntelligentSystemsLab/SmartPL.
