---
title: "AD-YOLO: A unified method for traffic dense and small object detection in UAV images"
collection: conferences
type: "[Poster Presentation]"
permalink: /conferences/2026-05-15-apte
venue: Haevichi Hotel & Resort Jeju
excerpt: "The 15th Asia-Pacific Conference on Transportation and the Environment, Jeju Island, South Korea, July 8-10, 2026."
date: 2026-07-08
location: "Jeju Island, South Korea"
---

Deng, Y., Hu, Y., **Ye, Y.**, Chen, T., & Xu, P.\* (2026, July 8-10). AD-YOLO: A unified method for traffic dense and small object detection in UAV images [Poster Presentation]. *The 15th Asia-Pacific Conference on Transportation and the Environment*, Jeju Island, South Korea.

**Abstract**: The densely distributed, scale-varying objects in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) images, together with dynamic, diverse, and unconstrained backgrounds, make conventional detection methods prone to missing detections, false alarms, and localization biases. To empower UAV vision tasks, we propose AD-YOLO, a unified method tailored for traffic dense and small object detection. First, a module, combining adaptive rotation convolution unit and grouped directional attention with mixed-kernel, is introduced to enhance the orientation invariance and multi-scale discrimination. Then, a dual-path collaborative feature pyramid network is proposed to jointly refine semantic and spatial details via multi-directional context aggregation path and hierarchical semantic progressive fusion path. Last, a hierarchically dense reparameterized large-kernel module is designed to achieve broader receptive fields with reduced computational complexity. Extensive experiments on the VisDrone2019 and UAVDT datasets demonstrate that AD-YOLO outperforms state-of-the-art methods in detection accuracy while maintaining favorable computational efficiency.
