---
title: "USD-YOLO: An Enhanced YOLO Algorithm for Small Object Detection in Unmanned Systems Perception"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-03-30-usd-yolo
date: 2025-03-30
venue: 'Applied Sciences'
excerpt: "SCI Q2, IF 2.5"
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.3390/app15073795'
citation: 'Deng, H., Zhang, S., Wang, X., Han, T. & Ye, Y.* (2025). &quot;USD-YOLO: An Enhanced YOLO Algorithm for Small Object Detection in Unmanned Systems Perception.&quot; <i>Applied Sciences</i>, 15(7), 3795.'
---
In the perception of unmanned systems, small object detection faces numerous challenges, including small size, low resolution, dense distribution, and occlusion, leading to suboptimal perception performance. To address these issues, we propose a specialized algorithm named Unmanned-system Small-object Detection-You Only Look Once (USD-YOLO). First, we designed an innovative module called the Anchor-Free Precision Enhancer to achieve more accurate bounding box overlap measurements and provide a smarter processing mechanism, thereby improving the localization accuracy of candidate boxes for small and densely distributed objects. Second, we introduced the Spatial and Channel Reconstruction Convolution module to reduce redundancy in spatial and channel features while extracting key features of small objects. Additionally, we designed a novel C2f-Global Attention Mechanism module to expand the receptive field and capture more contextual information, optimizing the detection head’s ability to handle small and low-resolution objects. We conducted extensive experimental comparisons with state-of-the-art models on three mainstream unmanned system datasets and a real unmanned ground vehicle. The experimental results demonstrate that USD-YOLO achieves higher detection precision and faster speed. On the Citypersons dataset, compared with the baseline, USD-YOLO improves mAP50-95, mAP50, and Recall by 8.5%, 5.9%, and 2.3%, respectively. Additionally, on the Flow-Img and DOTA-v1.0 datasets, USD-YOLO improves mAP50-95 by 2.5% and 2.5%, respectively.
