---
title: "Enhanced YOLOv8 with DWR-DRB and SPD-Conv for mechanical wear fault diagnosis in aero engines"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-08-22-yolo
date: 2025-08-22
venue: 'Sensors'
excerpt: "SCI Q2, IF 3.5"
paperurl: 'in press'
citation: 'Zhou, Q., Chai, B., Tang, C., Guo, Y., Wang, K., Nie, X., & Ye, Y.* (2025). &quot;Enhanced YOLOv8 with DWR-DRB and SPD-Conv for mechanical wear fault diagnosis in aero engines.&quot; <i>Sensors</i>, in press.'
---
Aero-engines, as complex systems integrating numerous rotating components and accessory equipment, operate under harsh and demanding conditions. Prolonged use often leads to frequent mechanical wear and surface defects on accessory parts, which significantly compromise the engine’s normal and stable performance. Therefore, accurately and rigorously identifying failure modes is of critical importance. In this study, failure modes are categorized into notches, scuffs, and scratches based on original bearing structure images. The YOLOv8 architecture is adopted as the base framework, and a Dilated Reparameterization Block (DRB) is introduced to enhance the Dilation-Wise Residual (DWR) module. This structure uses a large convolutional kernel to capture fragmented and sparse features in wear images, ensuring a wide receptive field. The concept of structural reparameterization is incorporated into DWR to improve its ability to capture detailed target information. Additionally, the standard convolutional layer in the head of the improved DWR-DRB structure is replaced by Spatial-Depth Convolution (SPD-Conv) to reduce the loss of wear morphology and enhance the accuracy of fault feature extraction. Finally, a fusion structure combining Focaler and MPDIoU is integrated into the loss function to leverage their strengths in handling imbalanced classification and bounding box geometric regression. The proposed method achieves effective recognition and diagnosis of mechanical wear fault patterns. Experimental results demonstrate that, compared to the baseline YOLOv8, the proposed method improves the mAP50 for fault diagnosis and recognition from 85.4% to 91%.
