---
title: "Wait or cross? Understanding the influence of behavioral tendencies, trust, and risk perception on pedestrian gap-acceptance of automated truck platoons"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2026-05-12-truck
date: 2026-05-12
venue: 'Transportation Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour'
excerpt: "SCI Q1, IF 4.4"
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Ye, Y., Che, Y., Liang, H., Zhang, Y., & Xu, P. * (2026). &quot;Wait or cross? Understanding the influence of behavioral tendencies, trust, and risk perception on pedestrian gap-acceptance of automated truck platoons.&quot; <i>Transportation Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour</i>, 120, 103660.'
---
Although automated trucks have the potential to improve freight efficiency, reduce operating costs, and address driver shortages, the convoying of two or more trucks has raised considerable concerns around pedestrian safety. This study conducted a controlled experiment to examine the influence of behavioral tendencies, trust, and risk perception on pedestrian intention to cross in front of an automated truck platoon. A total of 603 subjects participated in a virtual reality video-based questionnaire survey. By fusing the merits of structural equation modeling and artificial neural networks, a two-stage, hybrid model was developed to examine complex relationships between latent variables and gap-acceptance behaviors. Our results indicated that the subjects watched an average of five vehicle gaps before starting crossing and the average time gap accepted was about 5.35 seconds. Risk perception not only played the dominant role in shaping pedestrian crossing decisions, but also fully mediated the effects of behavioral tendencies and trust on gap acceptance. Participants who frequently violated traffic rules were more likely to accept a smaller time gap, while those who showed positive behaviors toward other road users tended to wait for a larger time gap. Participants who often committed errors, showed aggressive behaviors, and held greater trust in the safety of automated trucks generally reported a lower level of perceived risk of road-crossing in front of automated truck platoons. Building on these findings, a range of tailored countermeasures were proposed to ensure safer and smoother interactions between pedestrians and automated truck platoons.
